Dear Dr. Sedigh Sarvestani,

We have completed the review process of the above referenced paper that was submitted to the IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Computing.  Enclosed are your reviews. We hope that you will find the editor's and reviewers’ comments and suggestions helpful.

I regret to inform you that based on the reviewer feedback, we could not recommend publishing your paper. Final decisions on acceptance are based on the referees' reviews and such factors as restriction of space, topic, and the overall balance of articles.

We hope that this decision does not deter you from submitting to us again. Thank you for your interest in the IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Computing.

Sincerely,

Albert Zomaya
Transactions on Sustainable Computing, Editor-in-Chief
IEEE Computer Society
albert.zomaya@sydney.edu.au

***********
Editor Comments

Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
The reviewers have expressed skepticism on the clarity and novelty of this paper. Moreover, this paper is more about Complex Networks, and appears to be out of the scope of this SI on the intersection of computing systems and energy systems.

***********************

Reviewers' Comments

Please note that some reviewers may have included additional comments in a separate file. If a review contains the note "see the attached file" under Section III  A - Public Comments, you will need to log on to ScholarOne Manuscripts to view the  file.  After logging in to ScholarOne Manuscripts, enter the Author Center. Then, click on Submitted Manuscripts and find the correct paper and click on "View Letter". Scroll down to the bottom of the decision letter and click on the file attachment link.  This will pop-up the file that the reviewer included for you along with their review.

Reviewer: 1

Recommendation: Author Should Prepare A Major Revision For A Second Review

Comments:

It's not clear from the intro and background section what the contributions of this work are. Would be good to see an itemized list at the end of the intro.

On the first read by the end of the background section, I know we are talking about dependability and survivability analysis, but I don't know what the exact problem you are trying to solve. Figure 1 is an excellent depiction of the problem. Figure 4 is an excellent depiction of the solution approach, but we don't get to see it until halfway through the paper. An high-level explanation of the process we will use to evaluate survivability and the output of that process should be early in the intro, otherwise you will lose readers. By the time I got to Figure 5, I clearly understood what the paper was trying to accomplish. But I was really confused by the first few pages of the paper and probably would have stopped reading long before Fig 5 normally. The intro should concisely state the problem, the approach, the solution, and the results so we understand what the paper is about.

Table 1 shows how this work compares with previous work, but it seems like your contribution is mostly similar to the references you've cited.

I'm curious why you limit the discussion to electric power infrastructure in developed countries. Developing countries like India have much more serious infrastructure reliability problems, and it seems like they could benefit more from these techniques. Also, many developing countries experience multiple daily service interruptions which could serve as a good source for real-world failure case studies. If you can get some data from utilities in developing regions you would not need simulations to analyze your techniques.

Definitions in the background section are a little too verbose. A couple of concise sentences for each definition would be good enough. Would be nice to see these definitions itemized.


Section 3.3 is confusing. There is a lot of reliance on equations to explain simple concepts. I would prefer to see English defintions of the three contributors to criticality. I think each term \omega_{1-3} should be enumerated in a list and explained as concicely as possible. Keep the math if you feel it's absolutely necessary to describe your techniques, but don't use it to introduce the concept the first time. Equation (9) on page 7 along with the preceeding paragraph is a good way to explain a concept because you don't have to parse the equation to understand the idea.

Section 4 assumes that the reader is familiar with the body of work around placement of phasor measurement units, which I am not. I had to read a couple of your citations to know what this section was trying to accomplish. The sentence I got hung up on is the last sentence before sec. 4.1, "We used a neural network trained with N-1..." I'd like to see a couple of sentences that talk about why PMU placement matters.

While reading the background section I had some idea that these techniques would be applied to smart grids, but you don't come right out and say it. An overview of the smart grid case study should be presented in the intro so readers have a concrete idea about how we can use your techniques. I understand that your techniques do not have to be applied to smart grids, but it feels like you're overclaiming by making broad statements about applicability while only presenting a case study about smart grids.

The first two paragraphs in sec. 4.3 could be collapsed to one sentance that reads "We used the PSAT simulator, a MATLAB toolbox, because it supports..."

Section 4.3 starting on line 45 ("Failure case j is simulated at time...") is the first place where I see a concrete explanation of your technique. A summary of this should be in the intro because you don't want to make the reader wait too long before you explain what you're actually doing. In absence of this explanation, your readers (including me) will be coming up with some ideas in their imagination about how your techniques might work that will be wrong in at least some details. It's best to explain as much as possible as early as possible so you don't lose people.

Is the algorithm in Figure 4 the main contribution of this work? If so, it should be stated in bold at the end of the intro

I would like to see a discussion section before the conclusion that explains why IEEE-14 performs poorly compared to the others in survivability. Seems like the intuition around that question is the main takeaway from this paper. You can take a few paragraphs and maybe a couple figures to talk about how we can design microgrids for optimum survivability and what the tradeoffs might be---higher cost, more difficult maintenance, etc.


Grammatical notes:

Page 6, line 51: "Our cyber infrastructure is comprised of phasor..." should read either "Our cyber infrastructure comprises phasor..." or "Our cyber infrastructure is composed of phasor..."


Page 10, line 58: Looks like you forgot a backslash in figurename 8.


Additional Questions:
1. Which category describes this manuscript?: Theory

How relevant is this manuscript to the readers? Explain under Public Comments: Relevant

1. Please explain how this manuscript advances this field of research and/or contributes something new to the literature.: This work uses survivability analysis, borrowed from computer networking, to evaluate electrical grids. Its goal is to understand how disasters like acts of god or terrorist attacks would affect service provided by an electrical network. One tangible output is that the algorithm can be used to identify weak links in a network that could then be hardened. I am not aware of any commercial or open source projects that perform a similar kind of analysis, so these techniques may be useful to gird operators when designing, maintaining, or upgrading their infrastructure.

2. Is the manuscript technically sound? Please explain your answer under Public Comments below.: Appears to be - but didn't check completely

1. Are the title, abstract, and keywords appropriate? Please explain under Public Comments below.: Yes

2. Does the manuscript contain sufficient and appropriate references? Please explain under Public Comments below.: References are sufficient and appropriate

3. Does the introduction state the objectives of the manuscript in terms that encourage the reader to read on? Please explain your answer under Public Comments below.: No

4. How would you rate the organization of the manuscript? Is it focused? Is the length appropriate for the topic? Please explain under Public Comments below.: Poor

5. Please rate the readability of the manuscript. Explain your rating under Public Comments below.: Difficult to read and understand

6. Should the supplemental material be included? (Click on the Supplementary Files icon to view files): No, it should not be included at all

7. If yes to 6, should it be accepted: After revisions.  Please include explanation under Public Comments below.

Please rate the manuscript. Explain your choice.: Fair


Reviewer: 2

Recommendation: Revise and Resubmit as “New”

Comments:
This paper proposes an approach to evaluate the survivability of cyber-physical systems with particular attention to smart grids. It evaluates the survivability by defining the attributes that impact the survivability. Then, as another part, the authors propose another method for importance analysis. Finally, the proposed method is evaluated using three ieee test cases. Overall, this paper needs significant improvement. First, the contribution is not clear in the current version and highlighting the original contribution in a crispy manner would be necessary. Second, the differences against existing works on survivability are required. Finally, the organization of the paper is not balanced and there are several details that are not relevant to the paper. More details below. 

-- The introduction is too short and too general, without highlighting the technical contribution of the paper, challenges, and superiority against existing work. 

-- The last sentence in Section 4 before 4.1 talks about training models using neural networks. It is not clear why training is required, and also what is the details of using neural networks. 

-- The paper comes with several places with unnecessary details, that are quite out-of-scope of the paper, and irrelevant. For example, Section 4.3 on alternative simulators is totally beyond the scope of this paper, one page including three ieee test-cases without any useful reference to those topologies, and also and two pages of defining several irrelevant performance metrics and properties in Section 2. 

-- The range for x-axes in Fig. 5 is not given. Fig.2 with a single point sounds weird. 

-- Overall, even though the experiments are given for three test cases, the results lack sufficient insights on the efficiency of the proposed method. For example, what is the key message in Fig. 5? Are the results promising? Are the results potentially better than a baseline or alternative approaches? The same arguments apply to Fig. 6. 

Additional Questions:
1. Which category describes this manuscript?: Practice / Application / Case Study / Experience Report

How relevant is this manuscript to the readers? Explain under Public Comments: Interesting - but not very relevant

1. Please explain how this manuscript advances this field of research and/or contributes something new to the literature.: The approach for evaluating survivability sounds novel.

2. Is the manuscript technically sound? Please explain your answer under Public Comments below.: Appears to be - but didn't check completely

1. Are the title, abstract, and keywords appropriate? Please explain under Public Comments below.: Yes

2. Does the manuscript contain sufficient and appropriate references? Please explain under Public Comments below.: References are sufficient and appropriate

3. Does the introduction state the objectives of the manuscript in terms that encourage the reader to read on? Please explain your answer under Public Comments below.: Could be improved

4. How would you rate the organization of the manuscript? Is it focused? Is the length appropriate for the topic? Please explain under Public Comments below.: Could be improved

5. Please rate the readability of the manuscript. Explain your rating under Public Comments below.: Readable - but requires some effort to understand

6. Should the supplemental material be included? (Click on the Supplementary Files icon to view files): No, it should not be included at all

7. If yes to 6, should it be accepted: After revisions.  Please include explanation under Public Comments below.

Please rate the manuscript. Explain your choice.: Good