Manuscript Number: RESS_2019_1308R1

Identification of Interdependencies and Prediction of Fault Propagation for Cyber-Physical Systems

Dear Dr Sedigh Sarvestani,    

Thank you for submitting your manuscript to Reliability Engineering and System Safety.  

I have completed my evaluation of your manuscript. The reviewers recommend reconsideration of your manuscript following minor revision and modification. I invite you to resubmit your manuscript after addressing the comments below. Please resubmit your revised manuscript by Jan 19, 2021.  

When revising your manuscript, please consider all issues mentioned in the reviewers' comments carefully: please outline every change made in response to their comments and provide suitable rebuttals for any comments not addressed. Please note that your revised submission may need to be re-reviewed.    

To submit your revised manuscript, please log in as an author at https://www.editorialmanager.com/jress/, and navigate to the "Submissions Needing Revision" folder under the Author Main Menu.    

Reliability Engineering and System Safety values your contribution and I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.￼  

Please remember to sign in to receive the list of contents of next issues of RESS in:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/serial-alerts/save/09518320

Kind regards

Prof. Carlos Guedes Soares
Editor-in-Chief
Reliability Engineering and System Safety



Editor and Reviewer comments:    

Guest Editor: A thorough revision fully addressing reviewers' comments needs to be done for reconsideration. The literature survey should be updated with the latest development in the field. The novelty of the proposed method should be clearly stated as compared to the state-of-the-art methods.


Reviewer #1: From my reading, the paper has few technical contributions since this work only lies in the link from the identification of interdependencies to the prediction of failures. The authors only demonstrate applicability of neural network method in the field of CPS interdependency. The prediction of fault propagation is also a general neural network prediction. Compared with the existing relevant methods, the superiority of the proposed method is not clearly explained. The authors did not answer the reviewers' questions directly, such as item 6, 8 in reviewer1's comments and item 8, 9 in reviewer3's comments. Overall, this work is far away from the standard of Reliability Engineering and System Safety publication, and should be rejected.


1.The references in the last five years are rarely cited. What has been the state of the art in this field in the last five years? In Introduction, some of the latest relevant research work has not been included to illustrate the research motivation to provide the method. It is not clear what has not been done before and why the authors designed this method to address the problem. The authors did not give a reasonable explanation.

2.As the authors stated, "this study is not focused on the technical aspects of the machine learning tools. We only demonstrate applicability of such techniques in the field of CPS interdependency." However, based on machine learning, the prediction of fault propagation for cyber-physical systems is an important part in this paper. The number of hidden layers and hidden layer nodes affect the prediction performance of the ANN. But, the authors did not explain the basis for selecting the number of hidden layers and hidden layer nodes of the ANN.

3.In Case Study on Smart Grids, the parameters of the simulations are missing. The parameters of the neural network are not given for IEEE-14 and IEEE-57 bus test systems. Are the parameters the same in both cases? Moreover, is the number of hidden layers and hidden layer nodes of the neural network the same in both cases? How to ensure that they can achieve good results for different cases?

4.For the neural network prediction model, the generalization ability is also important. How to ensure the generalization ability of the neural network in this paper?

5.In Simulations, Authors are suggested to compare the proposed method with other relevant methods to indicate the superiority of the proposed method. This reflects the advantages of the designed method rather than "distract readers from the main topic".

6.The conclusion is still too long and it is difficult to grasp the main results. I recommend that the conclusion should be rewritten. The conclusion should be simplified only to highlight the major ones.



Reviewer #2: Author(s) have responded the queries satisfactorily. The manuscript may be accepted in current form.


Reviewer #3: The authors have addressed some problems. However, the modified content should be highlighted in the manuscript; otherwise, it is very difficult for reviewers to find the location of the modified content. In addition, the reviewer still thinks the authors should employ a large-scale system to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.


Reviewer #4: The revised version has answered all my concerns. I have no more question.