Manuscript Number: RESS_2019_1308  

Identification of Interdependencies and Prediction of Fault Propagation for Cyber-Physical
Systems  

Dear Dr Sedigh Sarvestani,    

Thank you for submitting your manuscript to Reliability Engineering and System Safety.  

I have completed my evaluation of your manuscript. The reviewers recommend
reconsideration of your manuscript following minor revision and modification. I invite you
to resubmit your manuscript after addressing the comments below. Please resubmit your
revised manuscript by Oct 11, 2020.

When revising your manuscript, please consider all issues mentioned in the reviewers'
comments carefully: please outline every change made in response to their comments and
provide suitable rebuttals for any comments not addressed. Please note that your revised
submission may need to be re-reviewed.    

To submit your revised manuscript, please log in as an author at
https://www.editorialmanager.com/jress/, and navigate to the "Submissions Needing
Revision" folder under the Author Main Menu.    

Reliability Engineering and System Safety values your contribution and I look forward to
receiving your revised manuscript.￼  

Please remember to sign in to receive the list of contents of next issues of RESS in:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/serial-alerts/save/09518320

Kind regards

Prof. Carlos Guedes Soares
Editor-in-Chief
Reliability Engineering and System Safety



Editor and Reviewer comments:    

Reviewer #1: In this paper, identification of interdependencies and prediction of fault
propagation are studied for cyber-physical systems. However, the innovation is weak, and
there are some issues in this paper.

  The comments are as follows:

1.        In Introduction, the research background is not clear, and the research motivation is
not specified.
2.        The main contribution and the novelty of the paper should be described in detail.
3.        What is the relation between identification of interdependencies and prediction of
fault propagation? Are the two independent?
4.        How are the interdependencies identified in the simulations? Please explain it
clearly.
5.        The prediction of fault propagation is a general neural network prediction. What is
the innovation?
6.        What is the basis for selecting the number of hidden layers and hidden layer nodes
of the ANN?
7.        On page 19, “while the validation dataset is employed to minimize overfitting during
the training cycles” is mentioned. Please explain it clearly.
8.        This paper lacks comparisons with other related papers in simulation. It’s essential to
embody the superiority of the control method in this paper.
9.        The conclusion should be concise.


Reviewer #2: In this work, the authors identify the inter-dependencies among the
components of a cyber physical system using correlation metrics. They have presented a
model of inter-dependency for cyber physical systems and developed a tool for predicting
the components that are in risk of failure. Authors talked about physical - physical, physical
-cyber, cyber-cyber, cyber physical dependencies.

The format and literary presentation of the paper is satisfactory. The structure of the paper
is deliberate and transparent. The work is presented in 4 sections. Inter-dependency
concepts and fault prediction concepts are well explained.Reference are written in an
adequate manner and results are properly demonstrated with tabular results and
graphs.The list of symbols and abbreviations is also given for the better understanding of
the mathematical terms.

Some minor suggestions are mentioned here.
1. Section 2 is very lengthy. It may be divided in two parts for better readability.
2. The causation dependency should be more clearly defined with supportive example.
3. The difference between cyber-physical and physical-cyber dependency should be
explained with some clear example.
4. Authors did not mentioned that how the causation dependencies can be identified.
5. In equation 2, alpha value is set to 0.9. Its reason should be mentioned.


Reviewer #3: This paper identify the critical interdependencies and predict the fault
propagation for power CPS. The authors should address the following issues.
1) In the interdependency identification, the authors employ the method of reference [17] to
analyze the causation. Compared with [17], the author considers the impacts of FACT and
PMUs on the system. However, this paper still focuses on identifying the critical
interdependencies among branches.
2) The contribution is not clear. The contribution is to propose a new method or to apply the
old method to the failure propagation analysis of CPS?
3) The authors should explain the differentiation of correlation and causation, for example,
the role of correlation and causation in fault propagation. The reviewer suggests that the
authors give an example to explain it.
4) In section 3, the authors claim "PMU device is disabled as soon as a voltage violation
occurs at the bus on which it is installed". What is the basis of this assumption?
5) In section 3, the authors don't consider the communication failures in the paper. If the
authors do not consider the communication failures, this paper still focuses on studying the
fault propagation of pure power system. In this paper, what is the interdependency of
cyber-cyber.
6) The authors employ the state variable to calculate the RDC. The state variable is power
flow ?
7) The authors should explain how to propagate a fault after the PMU or FACTS fails.
8) The authors should employ a large-scale system to verify the effectiveness of proposed
method.
9) Please give some diagrams to explain figs 2-4 although reference [17] has been
explained clearly.
Overall, we recommend the major revision.



Reviewer #4: In the paper, the authors studied the intrinsic interdependencies in cyber-
physical power systems and predicted the failure propagation with neural networks. In
general, the manuscript is clearly presented and the topic is up to date. The reviewer has
the following comments.

(1)   What is the meaning of c_{ij} in Equation (2)?
(2)   How does the IEEE test network correspond to four types of dependency in section
2.1? In other words, which components have dependencies in Figure 3, such as P-P, P-C, C-P
and C-C? Please give a more detailed illustration about simulated networks
(3)   Matrix W in subsection 2.2.2 has not been used since it was proposed, and what is
the difference between w_{ij} and e_{ij}?
(4)   Subsection 2.2.2 should be better reorganized for clearer narrative purposes.
(5)   Is the decision support algorithm in section 3 proposed by the authors? Please give
more details about the algorithm.
(6)   In section 3, the authors use the IEEE 57 bus system to demonstrate the scalability
of the proposed method. However, the IEEE 57 bus system is still relatively a small-scale
system, and the method may be infeasible to large-scale system due to the high
computational complexity. As shown in Table 1, the number of total buses of the system
increased by about four times (from 14 to 57), but the total number of cases required to be
simulated increased by about 100 times (from 6720 to 673920), the complexity of the
proposed should be discussed by the authors.
(7)   As mentioned by the authors in the last paragraph of section 1 "Using the
knowledge of the interdependency, we develop an artificial neural network for prediction
of fault propagation paths and cascading failure". However, it seems that the
interdependency knowledge have not been used to develop the ANN. Thus, two parts of
research (interdependency identification and fault prediction) seem to be separate.
(8)   As is mentioned in comment (7), how to validate the results of correlation and
causation analysis, rather than just calculating the numerical value. Thus, the authors are
suggested to give more experiments or illustrations about this concern.