Manuscript Number: RESS_2019_1308R2

Identification of Interdependencies and Prediction of Fault Propagation for Cyber-Physical Systems

Dear Dr Sedigh Sarvestani,

Thank you for submitting your manuscript to Reliability Engineering and System Safety.

I have completed my evaluation of your manuscript. The reviewers recommend reconsideration of your manuscript following minor revision and modification. I invite you to resubmit your manuscript after addressing the comments below. Please resubmit your revised manuscript by Mar 30, 2021.

When revising your manuscript, please consider all issues mentioned in the reviewers' comments carefully: please outline every change made in response to their comments and provide suitable rebuttals for any comments not addressed. Please note that your revised submission may need to be re-reviewed.

To submit your revised manuscript, please log in as an author at https://www.editorialmanager.com/jress/, and navigate to the "Submissions Needing Revision" folder under the Author Main Menu.

Reliability Engineering and System Safety values your contribution and I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.

Kind regards,

Carlos Guedes Soares

Editor

Reliability Engineering and System Safety

Editor and Reviewer comments:

Guest Editor: please conduct further revisions carefully to address the remaining concerns of the reviewers. Discussions on the effectiveness and advantage of the proposed method need to be strengthened.

Reviewer #1: Regarding the item 5 in reviewer1's comments, the authors answered that their earlier work [33] is cited, which presents an extensive comparison of our cyber-physical power system simulation technique to other methods. However, the related correction cannot be found in the revised version. Authors are suggested to compare the proposed method with other relevant methods to indicate the superiority of the proposed method. Please illustrate it in detail and revise the manuscript carefully.

Therefore, this paper should be revised.


Reviewer #3: The authors employ the steady-state method to study the cascading failures. Therefore, a large-scale system is necessary to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method. Otherwise, this persuasiveness is not enough.
